<head profile="http://www.w3.org/2005/10/profile">
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>Nic Werneck Homepage</title>
  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/~nlw/img/favicon.ico" type="image/x-icon" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/estilo.css" media="screen" />
</head>

[Main](index.html) | [Publications](publications.html) | [Misc](misc.html)

masters
=======

I did my masters at UNICAMP in 2007, supervised by professor Furio Damiani. Here are some information about the work.

## Title
__Análise da distorção musical de guitarras elétricas__

(en: _Analysis of the musical distortion of electric guitars_)


## Abstract

There are many problems related to the analysis of music which can benefit from a better knowledge
of the structure of the signals generated by different instruments. One of them is the compression
of signals based in structured audio, where the encoder analyzes a signal to determine parameters
for a physically inspired synthesizer to reproduce it. We must know the physical characteristics of
the instruments and signals to perform this kind of analysis and synthesis. This knowledge is also
helpful in the development of instruments and other equipment used by musicians to get the desired
timbre. This dissertation presents experiments performed with an electric guitar to show the nonlinear
dynamics of the strings, the effect of the guitar filter, a comparison of the recorded signals and
the theoretical waveform, and also a proposal for a potential technique to measure the parameters of
a model of a distortion circuit and a way to map a couple of those parameters to a space with more
psychoacoustical significance.

**Keywords:** electric guitar, physics of music, overdrive, musical distortion, string vibration, signal processing, parameter estimation, Hammerstein model, timbre space.


## Download
You can [download the dissertation from UNICAMP](http://libdigi.unicamp.br/document/?code=vtls000440383). Or from the [local copy](/almoxarifado/WerneckNicolauLeal.pdf)

